Welcome back wonderful God people.
OK.
Well planned the game we've got the assets ready.
Let's actually do something in this video.
We're going to start moving the character by the end of this video.
Good to be able to move a simple non animated character left and right.
And as time goes on we'll add things like jumping and animation and all the rest of it.
But let's start from the beginning.
So here we are in godda an empty area and an empty seat.
So first thing we do is create a new type of node.
So what node on is.
Well I want to do some sort of physics node right.
I want the game to actually calculate physics things like gravity and other asset.
Which one do I use.
Because if I type in physics Well two things I notice anything in this weird terracotta red that's not
weird it's quite beautiful actually but this terracotta red is 3D.
Anything in this light blue is 2D and we want this light pastel blue thing physics.
2d has some children very quickly what are they.
Well we have a physics body study that's the base class within it we have static body truly rigid body
Tiddy and kinematic body today.
Not to spend too much time about it.
I'm not spent too much time talking about these.
You can pause the video and look at these or look at the slides but very quickly static body doesn't
move.
It's a war you can move it.
Don't do that too much rigid body is directly controlled by the physics engine it has built in things
like gravity and friction.
It doesn't actually move it is moved by something else so you will apply an external force to it right.
Not great for player control if you try and move it every frame through using player inputs.
That's going to be a mess.
Kinematic body chiddy doesn't have built in physics things right.
You have to write in your own gravity you know friction but you can directly control it and it has built
in behaviours for colliding which is exactly what we want so let's make a kinematic body to be okay.
It's going to want us to create a what is a saying collision shape to your collision polygon 2D.
Not a problem.
Well slight problem.
What shape is it.
OK.
Let's make a bracket.
Later we'll make an animated Sprite but for now we will make a sprite.
And that's right.
Will be a play a sprite.
You can use whichever one you like but I'm going to use the money to stand.
I want to be the pink bunny.
If you'd rather be the Brown Bunny be the Brown Bunny.
It would be something else be something else.
I'm not the boss of you.
You do you cook.
OK.
We now know the shape.
Collision should be.
So let's pick a collision.
Illusion of the like blues hoodie terracotta red is 3-d.
Green is container hard stuff like that gown.
Those the little light on the section get gleision polygon.
No I don't find my own polygon.
I want to make a prebuilt one much easier and I'm going to make a new shape and I'm gonna pick a capsule
shape because that's pretty much what I need.
I don't need it to be pixel perfect because the skin looks a lot smaller player but what I do need is
to get this right now.
Quick tip don't try and scale your collision shape.
It's going to go wrong is going to bug out again the moment the game runs it's going to try and reset
the collision shape you get all kinds of expected behaviour.
Instead click on a capsule shape and change things like the radius and the height.
Or if you prefer.
Use these extensions in right in here is it.
This is the accent.
This is the scale not scaling.
Yes.
So about here.
Looks good and I'm actually going to pick that to 60.
Looks pretty good.
And heights.
Clearly not 10.
Stick to 20 for now and make sure it's in the centre here and let's just move on.
And when I get down to the feet and up to the head.
I guess I need the bottom line to get the ball to where the feet are going to and the top can be about
there.
I'm now going into position actually zero and y will be when t looks pretty good.
It looks nice.
I get so it's going a little bit above the head.
We can tweak that a bit.
Key thing I want the coalition to go to the feet not the body because I'm gonna need the player to know
where the ground is that's going to be really important.
I don't want this to be the ground I want the feet to the ground.
You'll notice there's a lot of space here where there aren't any pixels in a game like this.
That's not that important.
The reason being we're not tracking things like individual bullets if any enemy gets this close were
hit.
Right.
You know I am going to tweak this a little bit more.
Let's just get the top of the head there.
That was really close.
So what value so I have I have a height of thirty one.
As a student I'm at a height of 30.
It's deadly too.
That's the number I want.
One of the feet at the top of a head.
All right.
Excellent.
So there's a collision.
Before you go any further let's talk a little bit about this button right here.
Make sure the objects children are not selectable.
Here's why that matters.
If I want to move the plate affectless renamed kemet it wanted a team player because that's what's going
to be called to move the player and I drag it it'll drag the lowest thing in the tree right.
That the youngest child the bottom chart whatever it is with a collision shaped hoodie that's really
easy to spot.
But what happens if I do this.
Look I've moved the Sprite not the player that's going to lead to all kinds of bugs right if I'm trying
to calculate.
Have you hit the is the parents position.
Are you standing on something.
I'm looking here.
God I was looking here.
So make sure you have the selected.
And that way when you move it you move all of the things in that tree.
Right.
So we're going to move the player which is going to move all of its children the sprite and the collision
shaped Judy.
OK.
So far so good.
Let's make a script.
Make a new script.
And I'm not going to put it in the root directory rez.
I'm going to put it in these scripts directly and I want to call a play lot Judy because that's a good
name for it.
And you know um you know comments are right.
So before we go any further we have to define some things.
We need a variable that's going to be called motion and motion is of a type that type is vector to.
What does that mean.
It means it's going to store two values x and y right x and y it knows that it has x and y.
This is great for movement right in the 2D game we're playing with x and y values.
When the player presses a button the motion value is going to change and the script is going to know
how far to move us.
So for now let's do that.
And that's all when you finish.
OK.
So what needs to happen or we need a new function.
And this is going to be a physics function in physics and that's the built in physics process Delta.
OK.
Sit tight pass since I could talk about this without error messages.
Physics process.
Every time the physics engine ticks to a new stage to a new frame to a new moment in the physics process
do something and this thing Delta Delta just means we think it is time really it's the time between
takes the time between frames that matters a lot and we can play with that later but for now let's talk
about what's going to happen.
Every frame.
Let's do an if if input which is a built in command so if the input is action it's action.
So if the player does something what's going going do.
Are they going to just pressed.
In other words I've pressed the button don't measure if I'm still holding it down just measure it's
pressed am I going to do it I pressed the button is being held down or just released.
The play has stopped pressing it when there's casing that depressed right.
Them the longer I hold down right.
The more you should do something.
I don't want to do.
Have you pressed it.
Don't worry I'm still pressing it because that's going to mean I can move one pixel at a time.
So is action pressed.
Okay let's put in a pass here so I can talk about what actually we want.
Well is action pressed on press control and click on it is actually press.
Takes a strong action.
It's going to put it as a string.
And then do the action.
What action to do what.
Well that here's some built in ones.
Let's do Y right and let's look at where we would define what that is.
So getting a project settings and look at the map and he can see all the prebuilt UI options so we can
make a new one to call it anything we like donkey for example.
Not going do that.
If we wanted to we could make you a donkey.
I'm not going to I'm going to get rid of that.
Once we care about right now are left right and up right.
The only controls we can have in our game are move left move right and jump.
We could rename this jump if we wanted to but let's leave it for now.
Left right and up are on the cursor right and left our right arrow and up arrow.
I don't like that.
I don't use that.
I used the b c d so good to add ism options.
Start with the left or add a key and that key is going to be a.
The same for right.
That's got to be D and jump.
Actually I put two options here.
Some people would like to use w.
Some people like to use space.
So let's give them that option.
And are we using space anywhere else we are using it for vassilis.
Delete that.
Not that it really matters too much.
So now whenever the player presses anything that's you I write whether it's the right cursor arrow in
the right direction on the deep end of the controller.
Do something.
What do we have to do.
We're going to change the motion value so let's change the motion dot X..
Because speed I get a couple of things.
First let's make a new constant.
I've put in capitals because constants should be in capitals so you can see what they are.
Let's give it a good speed.
What's a good speed.
No 7 of 50 there cells.
Speed all these measurements by the way errant pixels so every time we take a move that many pixels
so a motion dot X. What does that mean.
Well motion has two values.
Right has an x and y motion dot X means.
Just do this first.
Value which is what we want.
So motion X equals speed.
Why.
Because speed is a positive value and positive x is right.
So now let's do the opposite.
If input is action press.
Whoops that again didn't I.
And that's clearly why I left.
Due did this motion.
What X equals minus speed.
You'll notice I'm setting a motion to be just go speed.
I'm not accelerating and I haven't found a max speed.
You can either be not moving or moving.
Now there are ways we can change that but I quite like this for this game.
What if you're not pressing anything right because it now we're saying if you move right move right
move left set left.
But we're not doing.
If you're not move exist who else.
Motion dot X equals zero.
Don't move.
This is an F I should properly put this as an elf.
Else if.
Right so if this is happening do that.
If it's not do that.
Otherwise do this.
So we've set a variable called motion but nothing's going to happen.
In fact let's save the player into seems was my scenes folder.
Sure I had one oh it's vanished.
I got a new folder since.
If we run this yes it be the default for now we'll change that later.
We will have a player in this corner and nothing will happen.
Now these inputs are being recognized but nothing's happening.
And that's because it doesn't know what to do with the motion.
So every frame no matter what I'm pressing I need to calculate the motion.
I mean to use move and we have two things we could do move and collide and slide.
Now we want to pick the right one by the way these are built into kinematic body today.
What do we want to pick.
OK so moving collide moving collide is when you hit something when you collide.
Just stop.
Right.
This can be very useful because it has a built in way of collecting information on what it is has collided
with.
So if you do a game where you hit something you need to know that thing is you would use this.
It doesn't automatically use Delta.
Right so we would want to take our motion value and multiply it by Delta move and slide on the other
hand is when you hit something.
Try and slide along it.
If you can move it slide also has built in functionality that can help us with floors walls and ceiling
right.
You can say if you're on the floor if you're on the wall.
If the ceiling which for us is really helpful.
Another key thing to realize is move and slide automatically uses Delta.
In other words when we set our motion move and slide will multiply that by the Delta move and collide
with it.
So if you try and switch between them you're going to have different speeds.
That's why I recommend bookmarking this or write it down somewhere or come back to the slides because
it's very easy to forget those.
So we are going to move and slide partially because if I hit a platform I don't want to suddenly stop
moving.
I keep moving the direction going again moving slide can take some values lots and lots of values what
we care about is this first one linear velocity What's a linear velocity.
All any of our city is motion.
Nice and easy.
Look at our left and right you'll notice.
By the way that the player starts off in a corner not in the centre.
Well the reason is the players the only thing in the scene is spawned at 0 0.
I can now move it down here.
The leaves you see and we can move.
We do have one tiny problem.
The tiny problem is this.
If I press right and then press left right still happens I press left the press right right still happens.
In other words Wright has priority.
Reason for this is an art.
If structure if you're pressing right go right.
That's the first thing to do.
And if it's doing that it won't do anything else.
It's not even a check for left if right is being pressed.
But that's not the functionality you want.
If we press left and right the player should stop.
I've played plenty of games so I've certainly press left and right when I mean to just go in the other
direction or stop.
That brings me to the challenge.
I'd like you tour a move that priority.
I'd like to change it so the functionality should be pressing left and right should not move the character.
Pause the video when you come back.
I'll show you one possible solution for this.
And welcome back.
OK there's a few different ways we could do this.
The easiest one the one I'm like is say if I'm pressing right and not left how to do that.
Well I could use and if you prefer you could use this was a double ampersand.
It means the same thing.
But I like using and because I can read that much easier and not.
And then I'm just going to copy this like so.
And now it's changed it so if input action press are pressing right and you're not pressing left do
that.
And now I'm just going to do the same thing here and not and let's copy this one.
By the way if you copy and pasting.
Be very sure what it is your copy and pasting right not a great habit to get into.
But if you're doing it that's just be aware why you're doing so now.
If I press right and left I'll stop.
And if I let go of right I'll go left and stop and let nothing.
Great.
So now I can run to the edge of something I go a little simplistic but we've actually covered a lot
of cool stuff here in this video.
We've looked at the different kinds of physics body to day.
We've created a simple kinematic body 2D character we've examined move and slide and move and collide
and talk about when you might want to use them.
And we've looked at how to move the character left and right and how to remove input priority.
This is the foundation for our game right from here on in.
We can cite things like jumping platforms and everything else but this is a really great start.
So great job so far.
If you use different sprite's a staff where you came up with a different solution we'd love to see it
share on the forums on discord and either way.
See on the next video.